>> Will Sentance: Okay, folks.
So we are back building out this function
here that's gonna take in an array.
Copy right Mr. Bob it was take in an array
by the looks of it, 1, 2, 3 here, and
create a new array, is then gonna iterate
through loop through the input array.
Take each element mode from other than by
two, fill up the output array with all
those doubled values and return out
that annuity filled out for the array.
Okay, it's something we do,
some sort of task like this.
We're gonna build it out, diagram it out,
but we're then gonna see another function
that's going to look,
I'm gonna sound out my best position.
We're gonna see another function that's,
that's why I don't like podiums.
We're gonna see another function that's
gonna look particularly frustratingly
similar.
And yet, we're gonna build
it out from scratch, again.
All right,
let's start with our friend Adam.
Here we go, Adam.
Take it away.
Let's start walking through our code here.
What are we doing, Adam,
in line one of our code here?
What are we storing into Global Memory,
Adam?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, function definition
with the label copier A and multiply-
>> Will Sentance: Very nice, yeah,
the function definition with
the label copy array, gonna try and
keep this neat, copy array and
multiply by two, excellent.
The whole function definition is saved,
there we go.
So, there it is, copy array and
multiply by two, it's saved.
Let's hit up Matt now, with what is our
next line that gets done by JavaScript,
executed by JavaScript, Matt?
>> Speaker 2: We're gonna define
the constant of my array.
>> Will Sentance: Beautiful.
Thank you, Matt.
It's got what value?
>> Speaker 2: An array of 123.
>> Will Sentance: Beautiful.
Thank you, Matt.
Now we hit the next Matt, keep going.
Now we're gonna define
the constant of result.
Excellent, I'm really enjoying Matt's
loud and confident voice here.
So we're gonna keep staying with Matt.
Matt, it's uninitialized for now,
well we've got to go and do what?
>> Speaker 2: Execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Execution
context to execute what?
>> Speaker 2: Copy array and
multiply by two.
>> Will Sentance: Copy array and
multiply by two,
there it is, multiply by two.
And we're gonna pass in
what as our argument?
>> Speaker 2: My array.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, which is one, two,
three, the array one, two, three.
Let's create that brand new-
>> Speaker 3: Execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Well done, people.
While I just get my edge here.
>> Will Sentance: Okay, there is
the execution context, here it is.
Let's just put on the call stack,
we're good.
We're recording this version,
right, aren't we?
So we're gonna be extra complete
in all our, all our stuff.
So that for posterity.
We have, yeah, copy, array.
Multiply by 2, we're running it,
it's on our call stack.
We always have global,
come to second down, I promise.
did I get anything wrong?
>> Speaker 2: No, you just got it,
I was gonna ask about the global.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent,
global's there on the, I did just get it,
excellent, [LAUGH] correct answer,
well done well.
And now, here's our execution context.
With the thread of execution going through
the code line by line on the left hand
side here, I'm not gonna always
write out every line of code, but
roughly we're going through
the thread of execution.
Running the code, and
then here's our local memory.
Matt, back to you.
What is the first thing
in our local memory?
What are we storing in there immediately?
>> Speaker 2: Our array parameter.
>> Will Sentance: Yes,
with assigned what argument?
>> Speaker 2: One two three.
>> Will Sentance: Yep,
one two three, there it is.
My array shot in,
fills an array, one two three.
Then Dan, we hit what line next?
We hit the body of the function now.
Which says to do what?
>> Speaker 2: We want to
create a new constant output.
>> Will Sentance: He's spot on,
well done, exactly.
And assign a what?
>> Speaker 2: A empty array.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent from Dan.
Now we hit our for loop.
Here it is, for loop.
We're not gonna go into the intricacies
of how you know it's declared but
we know that the body of it the bit
between the curly braces that line is
gonna be done X number of times.
How many number of times?
As long as I is less than the length
of the array, I saw zero,
the length of the array's three, we're
gonna increment increase I each time.
And then we're going to run that line
as long as I continues to be less or
zero continues to be,
I can do to be less than the length of
the array, so that's gonna be three times.
We're gonna see it play out into
the body of the folder we go.
I'm going to put these on
the left-hand side here,
not copying them, but just so
we can work with them more easily.
We have our array one two three and
our output is an empty array, Kayla?
Let's hit the body of the for loop.
Array position zero is what, Kayla?
>> Speaker 4: One.
>> Will Sentance: One, we take the one and
we do what with it, Kayla?
>> Speaker 4: We multiply it by 2-
>> Will Sentance: x when we get 2 we do
what with that, Kayla?
>> Speaker 4: We push it
into the output array.
>> Will Sentance: We push into
the output array, there it is.
Two, beautiful, good job.
Kayla, excellent.
Next one Kayla,
this time I's value is what?
>> Speaker 4: 2.
>> Will Sentance: There you go
don't worry, i's value next time.
>> Speaker 4: 1.
>> Will Sentance: Don't worry people,
in my new hot pot I literally
only iterate to section make
people consistently get that
wrong every single time.
Because in the end, this is a bat.
It's a dated interface for data.
But if I've got a collection of data, I
don't really care about the index position
most of the time,
I just want to get the next element.
And there's obviously a dated
interface dated way of accessing data.
I take my data like a anachronistic
document any better is it.
[LAUGH] Okay, an old fashioned I'd say,
like a not perfectly designed, or,
because we don't really care about
the index most of the time we're using it,
we just wanna get the element.
And there are new ways of doing it, we're
sticking with the traditional way here.
That's what I was gonna say,
we're not gonna go through the for
loop's sort of journey, but
it is an interesting interface for data.
And Kayla sort of showed us there why,
ultimately,
seasoned engineers every time
like Kayla will still go.
Anyway, you get the point.
So there it is, position 1,
get to 2, take it,
multiplied by 2 to get 4,
push it to output.
There we have it.
So for loops, we do it again.
There we go, 2, 4, 6.
And now the final line Kayla, of copy
array multiplied by 2 says to do what?
>> Speaker 4: We return the output array.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, we return the
value of output into what global constant,
Kayla?
>> Speaker 4: Result.
>> Will Sentance: Into result, well on.
And there it is, folk.
We took in one, two, three, we ran
copyArrayMultipleBy2 on that argument,
we've created a brand new array and
returned out that array filled
in with our doubled elements.
Good task, there we go, great.
One second, Jason.
Well done, everybody.
You love this function.
[LAUGH] You're gonna
love my next function.
I don't even wanna get started on
how exciting my next function is.
Look at this one.
[LAUGH] It moved,
it's less compelling when it moves.
Okay, everyone can see how much
it's changing here, people.
One character.
Literally one character, exactly.
What do you think has changed?
Everything's the same, but we're gonna
rebuild it from scratch because we
want to feel in our,
>> Will Sentance: Gut, so to speak.
That this is problematic, and
there must be a better way.